Add metadata fields for mappings (content gap initiative) (#6933)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/metadata-fields/routing.md

{
  "title": "This is a document"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

In this example, the document is routed using the value `JohnDoe1` instead of the default `_id`.

You must provide the same routing value when retrieving, deleting, or updating the document, as shown in the following example request:

```json
GET sample-index1/_doc/1?routing=JohnDoe1
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Querying by routing

You can query documents based on their routing value by using the `_routing` field, as shown in the following example. This query only searches the shard(s) associated with the `JohnDoe1` routing value:

```json
GET sample-index1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "terms": {
      "_routing": [ "JohnDoe1" ]
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Required routing

You can make custom routing required for all CRUD operations on an index, as shown in the following example request. If you try to index a document without providing a routing value, OpenSearch will throw an exception.

```json
PUT sample-index2
{
  "mappings": {
    "_routing": {
      "required": true
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Routing to specific shards

> You can configure an index to route custom values to a subset of shards rather than a single shard. This is done by setting `index.routing_partition_size` at the time of index creation. With this setting, the formula for calculating the shard is `shard_num = (hash(_routing) + hash(_id)) % routing_partition_size) % num_primary_shards`.

Author: ```suggestion
You can configure an index to route custom values to a subset of shards rather than a single shard. This is done by setting `index.routing_partition_size` at the time of index creation. The formula for calculating the shard is `shard_num = (hash(_routing) + hash(_id)) % routing_partition_size) % num_primary_shards`.
```

```json
PUT sample-index1/_doc/1?routing=JohnDoe1
{
  "title": "This is a document"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

In this example, the document is routed using the value `JohnDoe1` instead of the default `_id`.

You must provide the same routing value when retrieving, deleting, or updating the document, as shown in the following example request:

```json
GET sample-index1/_doc/1?routing=JohnDoe1
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Querying by routing

You can query documents based on their routing value by using the `_routing` field, as shown in the following example. This query only searches the shard(s) associated with the `JohnDoe1` routing value:

```json
GET sample-index1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "terms": {
      "_routing": [ "JohnDoe1" ]
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Required routing

You can make custom routing required for all CRUD operations on an index, as shown in the following example request. If you try to index a document without providing a routing value, OpenSearch will throw an exception.

```json
PUT sample-index2
{
  "mappings": {
    "_routing": {
      "required": true
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ## Routing to index partitions

Author: ```suggestion
## Routing to specific shards
```

You can configure an index to route documents to a subset of shards rather than a single shard by using the `index.routing_partition_size` setting, as shown in the following example request: 

```json
PUT sample-index3
{
  "settings": {
    "index.routing_partition_size": 4
  },
  "mappings": {
    "_routing": {
      "required": true
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> In this example, the documents are routed to one of four partitions in the index, based on a combination of the `_routing` and `_id` fields.

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, the documents are routed to one of four routing partitions in the index, based on a combination of the `_routing` and `_id` fields.
```

> In this example, the documents are routed to one of four routing partitions in the index, based on a combination of the `_routing` and `_id` fields.

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, the documents are routed to one of four shards in the index, based on a combination of the `_routing` and `_id` fields.
```

> Index partitioning has limitations, such as not supporting `join` field relationships in the mappings.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Partitioned indexes have some limitations, such as not supporting `join` field relationships in the mappings.

Author: ```suggestion
Index partitioning has limitations, such as not supporting `join` field relationships in the mappings.
```

---
layout: default
title: Routing
nav_order: 35
parent: Metadata fields
---

# Routing

> OpenSearch uses a hashing algorithm to route documents to specific shards within an index. By default, the document's `_id` field is used as the routing value, but you can also specify a custom routing value for each document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch uses a hashing algorithm to route documents to specific shards in an index. By default, the document's `_id` field is used as the routing value, but you can also specify a custom routing value for each document.
```

## Default routing

> The following formula is the default routing formula used in OpenSearch. The `_routing` value is the document's `_id`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is the default OpenSearch routing formula. The `_routing` value is the document's `_id`. 
```

```json
shard_num = hash(_routing) % num_primary_shards
```

## Custom routing

> You can specify a custom routing value when indexing a document, as shown in the following example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify a custom routing value when indexing a document, as shown in the following example request: 
```

```json
PUT sample-index1/_doc/1?routing=JohnDoe1
{
  "title": "This is a document"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

In this example, the document is routed using the value `JohnDoe1` instead of the default `_id`.

> You must provide the same routing value when retrieving, deleting, or updating the document, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must provide the same routing value when retrieving, deleting, or updating the document, as shown in the following example request:
```

```json
GET sample-index1/_doc/1?routing=JohnDoe1
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Querying by routing

> You can query documents based in their routing value using the `_routing` field, as shown in the following example. This query only searches the shard(s) associated with the `JohnDoe1` routing value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can query documents based on their routing value by using the `_routing` field, as shown in the following example. This query only searches the shard(s) associated with the `JohnDoe1` routing value:
```

```json
GET sample-index1/_search
{
  "query": {
    "terms": {
      "_routing": [ "JohnDoe1" ]
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Required routing

> You can make custom routing a required field for all CRUD operations on an index, as shown in the following example. If you try to index a document without providing a routing value, OpenSearch throws an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can make custom routing a required field for all CRUD operations on an index, as shown in the following example request. If you try to index a document without providing a routing value, OpenSearch will throw an exception.
```

> .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 59: Should "custom routing" be in code font if it's a field name, or should it just read "You can make custom routing required for all CRUD operations on an index"?

```json
PUT sample-index2
{
  "mappings": {
    "_routing": {
      "required": true
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ## Routing to index partitions

Reviewer: Should this be something like "Routing to specific shards" to match the following text?

> You can configure an index to route documents to a subset of shards, rather than a single shard. This is done using the `index.routing_partition_size` setting, as shown in the following example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure an index to route documents to a subset of shards rather than a single shard by using the `index.routing_partition_size` setting, as shown in the following example request: 
```

```json
PUT sample-index3
{
  "settings": {
    "index.routing_partition_size": 4
  },
  "mappings": {
    "_routing": {
      "required": true
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> In this example, the documents are routed to one of four partitions within the index, based on a combination of the `_routing` and `_id` fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the documents are routed to one of four partitions in the index, based on a combination of the `_routing` and `_id` fields.
```

> Partitioned indexes have some limitations, such as not supporting `join` field relationships in the mappings.

Reviewer: _Or_ should line 76 talk about index partitions rather than shards? I'm most interested in phrasing consistency here.

Author: Revised to clarify. The term should be "routing partitions" instead of "partitions" in line 92.

---
layout: default
title: Routing
nav_order: 35

> has_children: false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

parent: Metadata fields
---

# Routing

> Documents are routed to specific shards within an index using a hashing algorithm. By default, the document's `_id` field is used as the routing value, but you can also specify a custom routing value for each document.

Author: ```suggestion
OpenSearch uses a hashing algorithm to route documents to specific shards within an index. By default, the document's `_id` field is used as the routing value, but you can also specify a custom routing value for each document.
```
